---
layout: post
title: Root Soup
category: soup
---
An earthy and warming soup for winter! You could use almost any root vegetable. It's especially good with a mix of sweet, earthy, and spicy vegetables. 

**Ingredients:**
- 2 purple-top turnips or one small swede (yellow turnip)
- 2 sweet potatoes
- 4 carrots (more if small)
- 2 tart apples
- 1 big onion or two small onions (any kind is fine)
- 8 cloves garlic, chopped
- 1 quart chicken broth (which I think will make a fairly thick soup; use more if you want it more liquid)
- 1 can coconut milk
- Salt, black pepper
- Spices (to taste and optional): a sprinkle of nutmeg, a biggish sprinkle of ground chili, 1/2 tsp. cumin, 1/2 tsp. coriander seed

**Instructions:**
Peel the turnips, sweet potatoes, carrots, and onion, and peel/core the apples. Cut them in chunks about the size of a quarter-apple.

Put everything in a baking dish big enough to hold them close together but in a single layer. Drizzle with olive oil and sprinkle with salt and pepper. 

Cover with foil and bake at 375˚ for about 30 minutes until the vegetables are tender (it's fine if the apples get quite soft) and then take off the foil and cook for about 10 more minutes just to get some brown color and roasted flavor.

In a big pot, heat a bit of oil and cook the garlic until softened and golden. Add the vegetables, the spices, and the chicken broth and simmer another half hour until everything is quite soft.

Blend till smooth and then stir in the coconut milk. Taste for salt and spiciness--if it seems bland, add more salt and/or a spritz of sriracha or harissa, or drizzle with scallion oil (below) or sprinkle with chopped scallions when you serve it.

The ratio of vegetables is flexible and you could also include winter squash, parsnips, even beets. You could also add a bit of green chili for more spicy flavor. You could change the spices to include curry powder (for an Indian flavor) or fresh coriander and mint for a more green/Thai sort of flavor.

To make the scallion oil:
Chop 4 scallions fine. Put them in a small bowl and add a sprinkle of salt, 1 tsp. lemon juice, and enough olive oil to make a loose sauce (4 Tbs?). Whisk with a fork till it's all blended together.

